---
layout: single
title: 360-in-525-1. Introduction to Apache Spark for Data Scientists
permalink: /360-in-525/2018/01/
sidebar:
  nav: "lMenu-360-in-525"
header:
  overlay_color: "#5e616c"
  overlay_image: /assets/images/DISP-360-in-525-1600x524.jpg
  caption: 
excerpt: '360-in-525 Minutes Course Set in Data Sciences, Spring 2018, Uppsala -- Learn data sciences from domain experts and its mathematical foundations while getting your hands dirty with real data.<br /><br /><br />{::nomarkdown}<iframe style="display: inline-block;" src="https://ghbtns.com/github-btn.html?user=lamastex&repo=scalable-data-science&type=star&count=true&size=large" frameborder="0" scrolling="0" width="160px" height="30px"></iframe> <iframe style="display: inline-block;" src="https://ghbtns.com/github-btn.html?user=lamastex&repo=scalable-data-science&type=fork&count=true&size=large" frameborder="0" scrolling="0" width="158px" height="30px"></iframe>{:/nomarkdown}'
---
{% include toc %}

# Brief Overview of a 360-in-525 Minutes Course Set
 
For more details see [Overview of a 360-in-525 Minutes Course Set in Data Sciences, Spring 2018](https://lamastex.github.io/scalable-data-science/360-in-525/2018/) 


<html>
  <head>
    <script type="text/javascript" src="https://www.gstatic.com/charts/loader.js"></script>
    <script type="text/javascript">
      google.charts.load('current', {packages:["orgchart"]});
      google.charts.setOnLoadCallback(drawChart);

      function drawChart() {
        var data = new google.visualization.DataTable();
        data.addColumn('string', 'CourseName');
        data.addColumn('string', 'Prereq');
        data.addColumn('string', 'CourseTip');

        // For each orgchart box, provide the name, coursename, coursedate and coursetip to show.
        data.addRows([
          [{v:'360-in-525-1', f:'360-in-525-1: Intro to Apache Spark for Data Scientists (1 hp)<div style="color:red; font-style:italic">On April 20 2018</div>'},
           '', 'This is a one-full-day workshop (1 hp) on April 20 2018 on Apache Spark, one of the most widely used open-source and commercially friendly software for analysing big data in industry and academia.'],
          [{v:'360-in-525-2', f:'360-in-525-2: Social Media and Big Data (2 hp) <div style="color:red; font-style:italic">On April 26 and 27 2018</div>'},
           '360-in-525-1', 'This is a two-full-days workshop (2 hp) on April 26-27 2018. Prerequisites: 360-in-525-1 or ‘Introduction to data Science (the Fall 2017 course)’. The first day will be an introduction to the domain by Professor Simon Lindgren, a digital sociologist from Umea and the second day will build towards making one’s own twitter experimental designs in real-time. We will formalise notions like the Where Am I? Operator in a given population ideological tree or forest of retweet networks and try digesting gdelt global news streams with embeddings and models, if time permits.'],
          [{v:'360-in-525-3', f:'360-in-525-3: Geospatial Analytics and Big Data (2 hp) <div style="color:red; font-style:italic">On May 3 and 4 2018</div>'},
           '360-in-525-1', 'This is a two-full-days workshop (2 hp) on May 3-4 2018. Prerequisites: 360-in-525-1 or ‘Introduction to data Science’. The first day will be done by domain experts from Uppsala University’s Department of Social and Economic Geography in order to introduce the basic problems and datasets of the field with hands-on lab tutorials in non-distributed geospatial analytics. The second day will be on distributed geospatial analytics over real datasets that can be scaled to petabytes (syllabus is jointly designed with experts in London’s big data industry).'],
          [{v: '360-in-525-5', f:'360-in-525-5: Population Genetics and Big Data (1 hp) <div style="color:red; font-style:italic">On May 31 2018</div>'}, 
           '360-in-525-4', 'One-full-day workshops (1 hp) on **May 31 2018**. The first half will be on the basic theories in current population genetics and genomics. The second half will use ADAM and possibly Hail over Apache Spark. Prerequisites are 360-in-525-4 or equivalent and 360-in-525-1 or ‘Introduction to data Science’. It is possible to get 2hp by doing a supervised project.'],
          [{v:'360-in-525-4', f:'360-in-525-4: Mathematical, Statistical and Computational Foundations for Data Scientists (3 hp) <div style="color:red; font-style:italic">On May 11, 18 and 25 2018</div>'}, 
           '', 'Three-full-day workshops (3 hp) on May 11, 18 and 25 2018. Prerequisites: current proficiency in high-school level mathematics (pre-calculus, geometry and algebra with some programming experience beyond Excel). Target Audience: any MSc or PhD student at UU who wants to understand the mathematical statistical foundations in the data scientist’s computational toolbox. The approach will use formal mathematical communication of concepts starting from sets and logic, but with concomitant development of computer programming skills to algorithmically construct and implement the concepts. Topics will include: Sets, Maps, Functions, Modular Arithmetic, Axiomatic Probability, Conditional probability, Pseudo-random constructive understanding of random variables and structures including graphs, Statistics, Likelihood Principle, Bayes Rule, Decisions (parametric and non-parametric) including tests and estimators, Markov chains and their pseudorandom constructions, etc. We will use SageMath locally and collaborate in COCALC during the lab/lectures.'],
[{v: '360-in-525-0', f: '360-in-525-0: Mathematical Statistical Learning Theory Series; An L1 View (1 hp) <div style="color:red; font-style:italic">On June 1 2018</div>'},
         '','This course will introduce a PhD student in mathematics or mathematical statistics to one of the fundamental problems at the very core of various probabilistic theories of decision-making. We will mainly focus on the relation between the combinatorial geometric complexity of the (sigma) algebras of a simple measurable space and the rates of convergence of empirical measures over them in one of the simplest posable decision problems – nonparametric density estimation of an unknown density f in L1 based on finitely many observations drawn independently from it, but without making any mathematical compromise whatsoever, and thereby giving the so-called universal performance guarantee. This course was given in another form at CMAP, Ecole Polytechnique, Palaiseau, France for PhD students in mathematics there. Students in Geometry and Combinatorial probability as well as analysis may find this course insightful for their own research, as one of the basic theorems involves the combined use of several unique inequalities in a specific partial order of implications. The emphasis will involve constructive mathematics and perhaps delve into tree arithmetics towards such decision with universal performance guarantees along with their combinatorial, algebraic and analytic properties if time permits. Unfortunately such guarantees are not available for big data sets and may be necessary for being able to impose legal requirements and standards on automated decision-making systems.']
        ]);

        // Create the chart.
        var chart = new google.visualization.OrgChart(document.getElementById('chart_div'));
        // Draw the chart, setting the allowHtml option to true for the tooltips.
        chart.draw(data, {allowHtml:true});
      }
   </script>
    </head>
  <body>
    <div id="chart_div"></div>
  </body>
</html>


# [360-in-525-1: Introduction to Apache Spark for Data Scientists](https://lamastex.github.io/scalable-data-science/360-in-525/2018/01/)

This is a one-full-day workshop (1 hp) on **April 20 2018** on [Apache Spark](https://spark.apache.org/), one of the most widely used open-source and commercially friendly software for analysing big data in industry and academia. 
A crash course in Scala, the language of Apache Spark, will be followed by introduction to resilient distributed datasets (RDDs), their transformations and actions, Spark DataSets and DataFrames, SparkSQL.  We will have brief teasers on ML Pipelines, Streaming and GraphX as they will be covered in-depth in the sequel modules (concepts will be fortified by homework assignments you are expected to do!). 

# Course Content

## YouTube Archive of lab-lectures:

* [https://youtu.be/HCDzUQZHmaU](https://youtu.be/HCDzUQZHmaU)
* [https://youtu.be/Jk4puUbLb_E](https://youtu.be/Jk4puUbLb_E)
* [https://youtu.be/j6j4w6BkzZA](https://youtu.be/j6j4w6BkzZA)
* [https://youtu.be/dS2V3OanQt4](https://youtu.be/dS2V3OanQt4)

## databricks notebooks individually

- [001. Why Spark?](db/001_whySpark/)
- [002. login to databricks](db/002_loginToDatabricks/)
- [003. Scala Crash Course](db/003_scalaCrashCourse/)
- [004. RDD, Transformations and Actions](db/004_RDDsTransformationsActions/)
- [005. RDDs Homework](db/005_RDDsTransformationsActionsHOMEWORK/)
- [006. Word Count](db/006_WordCount/)
- [007. SparkSQL Intro](db/007_SparkSQLIntroBasics/)
- [007a SparkSQL PG Homework](db/007a_SparkSQLProgGuide_HW/)
- [007b SparkSQL PG Homework](db/007b_SparkSQLProgGuide_HW/)
- [007c SparkSQL PG Homework](db/007c_SparkSQLProgGuide_HW/)
- [007d SparkSQL PG Homework](db/007d_SparkSQLProgGuide_HW/)
- [007e SparkSQL PG Homework](db/007e_SparkSQLProgGuide_HW/)
- [007f SparkSQL PG Homework](db/007f_SparkSQLProgGuide_HW/)
- [010. Wiki Click Streams](db/010_wikipediaClickStream_01ETLEDA/)

## All databricks notebooks

Import all databricks notebooks for this module as a `.dbc` file from:

*  [https://github.com/lamastex/scalable-data-science/blob/master/dbcArchives/2018/sds-2-2-360-in-525-01.dbc](https://github.com/lamastex/scalable-data-science/blob/master/dbcArchives/2018/sds-2-2-360-in-525-01.dbc)
