---
layout: single
title: Privacy-Aware Decisions - A Full-Day Workshop in Data Sciences, Spring 2019, Uppsala
permalink: /360-in-525/2019/
sidebar:
  nav: "lMenu-360-in-525"
header:
  overlay_color: "#5e616c"
  overlay_image: /assets/images/DISP-mobileIotData-1600x524.jpg
  caption: 
excerpt: 'Learn data sciences from domain experts and its mathematical foundations while getting your hands dirty with real data.<br /><br /><br />{::nomarkdown}<iframe style="display: inline-block;" src="https://ghbtns.com/github-btn.html?user=lamastex&repo=scalable-data-science&type=star&count=true&size=large" frameborder="0" scrolling="0" width="160px" height="30px"></iframe> <iframe style="display: inline-block;" src="https://ghbtns.com/github-btn.html?user=lamastex&repo=scalable-data-science&type=fork&count=true&size=large" frameborder="0" scrolling="0" width="158px" height="30px"></iframe>{:/nomarkdown}'
---
{% include toc %}

## Overview of Full-Day Workshop on Privacy-Aware Decisions

**For PhD Students at Uppsala University and Researchers who want to upskill for Data Industry**


There will be one full-day workshop-style course worth 1hp.

This is partly supported by the Centre for Interdisciplinary Mathematics jointly with the Department of Mathematics in Spring 2019 and taught by domain experts in Privacy and Geospatial Analytics. 

# [360-in-525-2019-1: Introduction to Privacy-Aware Decisions](https://lamastex.github.io/scalable-data-science/360-in-525/2019/)

This is a one-full-day workshop (1 hp) on **Tuesday April 23 2019** on Privacy-Aware Decisions.

The schedule is being finalised. 

- Morning Tutorials: 0900-1200 hours
  - Tutorial on *Privacy-preserving Data Mining: An Introduction* by [Julián Salas Piñón](http://transfer.rdi.uoc.edu/en/researcher/salas-pin-julin) of K-riptography and Information Security for Open Networks (KISON) Research Group at The Internet Interdisciplinary Institute (IN3), Open University of Catalunya (UOC), Barcelona, Spain.
  - Tutorial on *GDPR and privacy-aware statistical learning* (TBC) by [Amelia Andersdotter](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Amelia_Andersdotter), a Swedish politician and former Member of the European Parliament (2011–2014).
 
- CIM CosY Seminar: 1200-1300 hours
  - *Simple Complex Phenomenon of Urban Parking: A Complete Theory of Parking in the City* (TBC) by Professor [Itzhak Bennenson](https://en-exact-sciences.tau.ac.il/profile/bennya), Faculty of Exact Sciences, Tel Aviv University.
- Seminars and Discussions: 1400-1700 hours
  - Details TBA

## Other Details

Master students at Uppsala University must contact their study councellor in order to see if it is possible to take the course as a "Selected Topics Course" in their Department.

If you are working in industry and want to upskill in data science then you can take the courses (free of cost) and receive a certificate from the Department of Mathematics upon successful completion.

This course set is coordinated by [Raazesh Sainudiin](http://math.uu.se/research/raazesh-sainudiin/) at the Department of Mathematics, Uppsala University and a Data Science Consultant at [Combient AB](https://combient.com/) in Stockholm. 
If you are a PhD or MSc student at Uppsala University or a researcher who wants to upskill for the data industry and interested in registering for appropriate subsets of the course set then please email details/questions/etc to the course set coordinator with subject line `360-in-525-2019`. 

Physical presence is mandatory for the credits in all of these modules.


#### What is expected in a 1hp Course at Uppsala University?
Learning concepts in depth and familiarizing one self with new syntax requires completion of watching/reading assignments and completion of homework exercises. At Uppsala University, 1hp is about 25 hours of work and there is plenty of time, outside the 6-8 hours of face-to-face lab/lecture meetings, for deepening one's understanding.  

## Abstracts of Tutorials and Seminars

- **Abstract of Tutorial on Privacy-preserving Data Mining:** Data mining via structured querying and statistical machine learning and AI algorithms may have enormous benefits to science, business and society. At the same time, the large amount of data collected and analyzed may reveal a lot about our private lives, from our habits or personality traits to personal information that we may prefer to keep private.
To motivate privacy enhancing techniques, we will present examples of attacks to privacy that were possible due to naïve 
anonymization of medical records, AOL internet search queries, Netflix movie ratings and NYC-taxis' geo-location data.
We will review some well known methods for privacy protection (such as k-anonymity or differential privacy) to prevent attribute and identity disclosure.
Then, we will discuss the trade-offs between the risk of disclosure and the utility loss in different contexts such as databases, online social networks and geo-located data.
